README.rst, before:

Papageorge
==========

A simple client for the `Free Internet Chess Server (FICS)`_

.. _`Free Internet Chess Server (FICS)`: http://freechess.org/ 

Dependencies
------------

To run Papageorge you will need:

    1. Python3_
    2. PyGObject_
    3. Pycairo_
    4. urwid_

.. _Python3: https://www.python.org/ 
.. _PyGObject: http://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/PyGObject
.. _Pycairo: http://www.cairographics.org/pycairo
.. _urwid: http://urwid.org/

Installation
------------

First, get the source code with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/drestebon/papageorge.git

and install with

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo python setup.py install

You can then create a launcher for papageorge. You can also run it directly
from the source directory.

If you want, you can copy the configuration file ``papageorge.conf`` in your
home directory and fit it to your needs (more details below).

Archlinux
.........

Papageorge is available at Archlinux's AUR_.

.. _AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/papageorge-git/

Other
.....

In Debian 8.2 and Ubuntu 15.04 you can create a ``.deb`` file with
``create_deb.sh``. You may need to install ``python3-stdeb``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install python3-stdeb

Then you create the ``.deb`` package running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./create_deb.sh

on the papageorge source directory and install it with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo dpkg -i deb_dist/python3-papageorge_0.1.1-1_all.deb

if it fails on missing dependencies, install them with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get -f install

and you should be ready to go.

Usage
-----

Run it with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ papageorge [username password]

If you don't provide any arguments you will be asked for your login
information.

Papageorge has three parts, no more, no less. Three is the number of parts you
will meet in papageorge and the number of parts in papageorge is three. I use
Papageorge with a tiling window manager, so it is convenient to have one window
for each of the following three parts:

The Console
...........

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/TFeCS4jkA.png

Here you can directly enter fics commands. 

=============== =====================================================
Command         Action
=============== =====================================================
``%c``          Connect to fics
``%q``          quit
``F5``          Launch the Seek Graph window
Click on handle Open actions dialog (match, tell, finger)
Click on move   Issue it (usefull with AnalysisBot)
Shift           Back down to normal mouse behaviour (copy and, f.ex.)
=============== =====================================================


The Seek Graph
..............

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/By0aQO.png

Here the available seeks are displayed. Squares are computers, circles
are humans. The light grey ones are rated games, the dark grey ones are
not. Click to match.

The Board
.........

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/bGd7t.png

Here you play, examine or observe games. Some keys are bound per
default:

=============== ========================================
Key             Action
=============== ========================================
``Escape``      Launch the actions dialog
``Tab``         Set promotion
``<Control>f``  Flip board
``<Control>b``  Toggle border with rank-file coordinates
``Right``       Fast-forward a move
``Left``        Rewind a move
``Up``          Fast-forward many moves
``Down``        Rewind many moves
``<Shift>Up``   Fast-forward to the end of the game
``<Shift>Down`` Rewind to the beginning of the game
``F5``          Launch the Seek Graph window
non-binded keys Write to console
=============== ========================================

You can change these bindings and add new ones in the configuration file.

Configuration file
..................

You can customize Papageorge with ``~/.papageorge.conf``. The provided model,
includes the default colors for the board and the console and some useful
key-bindings.

Timeseal
........

To use timeseal get the executable_ and then configure it properly in
``~/.papageorge.conf``.

.. _executable: http://sourceforge.net/projects/scidvspc/files/support%20files/timeseal.Linux-i386.gz/download

Commit message:

Many new features and bugfixes.
Among other little stuff:

o PGN support:
    - save to pgn local
    - upload from local pgn
    - FEN support
    - comment in tooltip
    - add/edit/remove comment
    - multiple games in single file
    - option to save timestamps addresses #31
- the moves from analysisbot are sent after parsing them with Pgn, should
  address #46
- when observing a game under development, fill game history with old moves
- fix for piece dissapearing after being droped out of the board #48
- board actions for interrupted observed games

README.rst, after:

Papageorge
==========

A simple client for the `Free Internet Chess Server (FICS)`_

.. _`Free Internet Chess Server (FICS)`: http://freechess.org/ 

Dependencies
------------

To run Papageorge you will need:

    1. Python3_
    2. PyGObject_
    3. Pycairo_
    4. urwid_

.. _Python3: https://www.python.org/ 
.. _PyGObject: http://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/PyGObject
.. _Pycairo: http://www.cairographics.org/pycairo
.. _urwid: http://urwid.org/

Installation
------------

First, get the source code with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/drestebon/papageorge.git

and install with

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo python setup.py install

You can then create a launcher for papageorge. You can also run it directly
from the source directory.

If you want, you can copy the configuration file ``papageorge.conf`` in your
home directory and fit it to your needs (more details below).

Archlinux
.........

Papageorge is available at Archlinux's AUR_.

.. _AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/papageorge-git/

Other
.....

In Debian 8.2 and Ubuntu 15.04 you can create a ``.deb`` file with
``create_deb.sh``. You may need to install ``python3-stdeb``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install python3-stdeb

Then you create the ``.deb`` package running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./create_deb.sh

on the papageorge source directory and install it with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo dpkg -i deb_dist/python3-papageorge_0.1.1-1_all.deb

if it fails on missing dependencies, install them with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get -f install

and you should be ready to go.

Usage
-----

Run it with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ papageorge [username password]

If you don't provide any arguments you will be asked for your login
information.

Papageorge has three parts, no more, no less. Three is the number of parts you
will meet in papageorge and the number of parts in papageorge is three. I use
Papageorge with a tiling window manager, so it is convenient to have one window
for each of the following three parts:

The Console
...........

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/TFeCS4jkA.png

Here you can directly enter fics commands. 

=============== =====================================================
Command         Action
=============== =====================================================
``%c``          Connect to fics
``%q``          quit
``F5``          Launch the Seek Graph window
Click on handle Open actions dialog (match, tell, finger)
Click on move   Issue it (usefull with AnalysisBot)
Shift           Back down to normal mouse behaviour (copy and, f.ex.)
=============== =====================================================


The Seek Graph
..............

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/By0aQO.png

Here the available seeks are displayed. Squares are computers, circles
are humans. The light grey ones are rated games, the dark grey ones are
not. Click to match.

The Board
.........

.. image:: http://saveimg.com/images/2015/09/14/bGd7t.png

Here you play, examine or observe games. Some keys are bound per
default:

================== ========================================
Key                Action
================== ========================================
``Escape``         Launch the actions dialog
``Tab``            Set promotion
``<Control>f``     Flip board
``<Control>b``     Toggle border with rank-file coordinates
``<Control>space`` Toggle the movesheet
``Right``          Fast-forward a move
``Left``           Rewind a move
``Up``             Fast-forward many moves
``Down``           Rewind many moves
``<Shift>Up``      Fast-forward to the end of the game
``<Shift>Down``    Rewind to the beginning of the game
``F5``             Launch the Seek Graph window
non-binded keys    Write to console
================== ========================================

You can change these bindings and add new ones in the configuration file.

Right clicking the board pops up a menu with different actions, such as
resigning or saving the game to a ``.pgn`` file, among others.

Configuration file
..................

You can customize Papageorge with ``~/.papageorge.conf``. The provided model,
includes the default colors for the board and the console and some useful
key-bindings.

Timeseal
........

To use timeseal get the executable_ and then configure it properly in
``~/.papageorge.conf``.

.. _executable: http://sourceforge.net/projects/scidvspc/files/support%20files/timeseal.Linux-i386.gz/download
